# Week 17: Final

# Cloud based analytics

## **Cloud Analytics**

- Business Intelligence, Data Analytics, Advanced Analytics
- OLTP vs OLAP
    - OLTP - Online transaction processing
    - OLAP - online analytical processing
        - OLAP offers richer analysis than RDBMS which are limited by SQL
    - Over the past decade (2010-2020), the momentum seems to be shifting from
        - building Datacubes to running OLAP workloads directly on columnar databases
    - Traditionally, OLAP cubes were known for extreme performance advantages over row-oriented RDBMS
    - With an OLTP system, the typical query involves one column
        - Correct! With an OLAP system, the typical query involves one column, but an OLTP query typically involves most or all of the columns in a row
    - **OLTP and OLAP are both for structured data**
    - If the vast majority of your queries involve a very large number of rows but only a few columns, which system is a more natural fit?
        - OLAP
    - If the vast majority of your queries only involve a few rows, but involve most or all of the columns for those rows, which system is a more natural fit?
        - OLTP
    - OLAP cubes require complicated pipelines to transform data from a SQL database into OLAP cubes

## **Data Cube**

- What is a data cube, what is it used for, how does it apply to clouds?
    - **A Datacube is a data structure** (2-d array)
    - Massive dataset that cannot fit in computers main memory
    - OLAP cube requires complicated pipelines and common for ETL (extract-transform-load) pipelines to run overnight
- Relationship between data cubes and SQL databases
    - OLAP cubes require SQL databases and warehouses be organized for cube creation
- Who are Kimball and Inmon, and what were their contributions?
    - Developed repeatable methods to turn business reporting requirements into datawharehouse designs
    - Kimball dimensional modeling
    - Immon-style entity relationship modeling or data vault modeling
- What are common data cube operations?
    - Slicing - picking a rectangular subset of the cube
    - Dicing - produces a sub cube by picking specific values
    - Drill up/down - navigate among data rows
    - Roll-up - summarizing the data along a dimension
    - Pivot - rotate the cub in space to see all faces
- Relationship between OLAP cubes and row-oriented RDBMS, including strengths and weaknesses of each approach
    - OLAP - online analytics processing
        - Each data element of a record stored as a column
        - For example in a table with 100 columns a query using 5 columns reads about 5% of the data
    - Row-oriented - oriented in rows similar to a spreadsheet
        - Retrieving data requires reading an entire row to get one element

## **Columnar Storage**

- Column-stores: what are they and what are some examples of column-stores?
    - MonetDB, VectorWise, Vertica, SybaseIQ
- What are some hardware optimizations for columnar storage?
    - Reading multiple values from the same column improves cache utilization
    - SIMD (vectorized instructions)
    - Storing like data together can improve compression
    - Columns can grow and shrink independently
- Column Store File Format
    - Apache Parquet, ORC (optimized row columnar format), RCFile, Apache Kodu

## **Data Warehouse**

- What motivates modern data warehouse architecture? What technologies enable it?
    - Cloud, infinite low cost storage, parallel programming, columnar storage, vectorized processing
- What are some examples of columnar-based data warehouses?
    - A datacube is an example of a columnar RDBMS
    - Redshift, BigQuery, MariaDB with InfiniDB, PostgreSQL (**cstore_fdw)**
- Redshift, Azure Synapse,

## **Data Lakes**

- How does a data lake differ from a data warehouse? Why use a data lake? What are the components of a data lake?
    - Data lake is even bigger than a warehouse and often unstructured
    - New type of data repository for storing massive amounts of raw data in its native form in a single location
    - Object storage, move data, data lake schema discover, SQL exploration and query, lake formation

## **Other Cloud Analytics Services**

- Serverless Analytics
    - Azure Analysis service, AWS Redshift spectrum, AWS Athena
- Search-based Analytics
    - ELK stack, AWS CloudSearch
- Big Data Analytics
    - Managed Hadoop/Spark/Hive, Streaming Analytics like Kinesis
- Graphical BI Tools
    - AWS QuickSight, PowerBI, Tableau

# **Graph Processing and Machine Learning**

## **Graph Processing**

- What is Graph Processing? What is a graph database?
    - **A graph database is a storage system that provides index-free adjacency**
    - Pregel's message passing API guarantees message delivery order - **False**
    - Messages in Pregel are delivered exactly once - **True**
    - Pregel uses a master/worker model
    - In fact, Pregel does not use MapReduce, because MapReduce produces too much communication between stages.
        - MapReduce tends to be inefficient because the graph state must be stored at each stage of the graph algorithm, and each computational stage will produce much communication between the stages.
- What is Pregel? How does it work? What are its properties? How does it detect and respond to failures?
- What is Giraph? How does it differ from Pregel? Why was it created?
    - Made by Apache to have open source alternative to Pregel
- What is Spark GraphX? What are some of the graph operators that are used in GraphX?
- What are Graphs? Describe nodes / vertices, edges, etc
- Differences between undirected and directed graphs
- What is index-free adjacency?
- Differences between Graph Databases and Relational Databases
- Limitations of Map-Reduce with respect to graph processing
    - Graphs are sparse (not many edges per vertex)
- Limitations of current shared-memory systems for graph processing
- Describe vertex-oriented graph processing
- Primitives in Pregel? Are edges or are vertices first-class citizens in Pregel?
    - Vertices are first class citizens and where computation occurs
- What are super steps? What does each super step involve doing?
- Layout of a standard Pregel program
- Describe the Pregel system architecture
    - Uses master/worker model
- Storage of temporary and persistent data in Pregel
- Execution of a Pregel program
    - No guarantee of message delivery order
    - Messages are delivered exactly once
- How does Pregel guarantee fault-tolerance? Describe checkpointing, failure detection and recovery
    - Uses pinging and checkpoints, if there is a failure we report from the last checkpoint
- What is Apache Giraph?
- Describe the responsibilities of the following components in Giraph - ZooKeeper, Master, and Worker
    - ZooKeeper - responsible for computation state
    - JobTracker
    - TaskTracker
    - Worker
- Describe the standard execution flow in Giraph
- Describe an algorithm to find connected components in Giraph
- What is GraphX? What technologies does GraphX use?
- Building a graph in GraphX
- How does GraphX compare to Giraph / Pregel?
- Graph operators supported by GraphX
- The adjacency list of the brain (modeled as a collection of vertices and edges) is
    - A model of the web would have approximately 50 billion vertices, 1 trillion edges, and a 30 TB adjacency list, while a model of the brain would have approximately 100 billion vertices, 100 trillion edges, and a 2.84 PB adjacency list

## **Machine Learning in the Cloud**

- How does Data Mining and Machine Learning relate to Artificial Intelligence? What are some applications?
    - AI is an umbrella term
- What is the OSEMN Data Science Model? What happens in each of its stages? What cloud tools can you use in each stage?
    - Obtain
    - Scrub
    - Explore
    - Model
    - Interpret
- What is a hyper parameter? What is AutoML? How do they relate to one another?
    - Hyper parameter are parameters about the model
    - AutoML automatically trains and searches through the search space to find best hyperparameters
- What is the Google Cloud AI Platform? What tools does it provide?
- What does Microsoft Azure offer for cloud-based machine learning?
- Describe how AWS SageMaker supports ML on the cloud.
    - System to build ML models
    - Managed notebooks
    - Hyperparameter optimization tools
    - Ability to detect concept drift
- What is Human in the loop AI? Why use it? What are its strengths and weaknesses? What are tools that support Human in the loop AI?
- What are examples of unstructured data? What are the ML cloud tools specifically designed to handle unstructured data?
- What is Mahout? What are its goals?
- What is Spark? What are its goals?
- What is collaborative filtering?
    - **A recommendation engine working based on the user preferences and others with similar preferences**
- What is clustering? What is it used for?
- What is the K-Means algorithm used for? How does it work?
    - k-means clustering aims to partition n observations into k clusters
- Optimizations for K-Means
- What is classification with respect to machine learning?
- Describe a few use cases of classification
- Describe a few models which can be used for classification
- Describe the Naive Bayes algorithm
    - A set of  labeled data points are given. A model based on those data points is built such that for any new unlabeled data point the label is determined.
- Frequent pattern mining (fpm) and its use cases
- Describe the apriori algorithm

# Streaming Systems

- Why do we need the real-time stream processing systems?
- Representative cloud streaming engines.
- What are spouts , bolts, streams, and topologies in Apache Storm?
- Understand the different grouping ways in Storm.
- What are the three flavors of guaranteeing messge processing, and where are they used?
- Understand Trident for exactly once processing.
- Understand the structure of a Storm cluster.
- How does Storm guarantee fault tolerance?
- How Thrift is used in Storm?
- Understand the IScheduler and Multi-tenant scheduler in Storm.
- What is stateful stream processing?
- What is the difference between Storm streaming and Spark streaming?
- What are the advantages and disadvantages of the micro-batch idea in Spark streaming?
- What applications are more suitable for Spark streaming?
- Understand the Lambda architecture and Kappa architecture in stream processing. Why do we need them?
- What are the general steps in a streaming ecosystem?

# Virtualization and Containers

## **Virtualization**

- What is virtualization and what is its main idea ?
- User and kernel modes
- CPU privilege levels
    - Application level instruction
    - Kernel level instruction
- Comparison between different type of virtualizations
    - Emulation
    - Binary translation
    - Paravirtualization
        - Only possible when we can modify the OS
    - Hardware assisted
    - MicroVMs
    - Full virtualization
        - Virtual machine using full virtualization can only run guest OS designed for one type of CPU (the same as host).
    - Types
        - “A service needs to run an unmodified OS on a basic processor.” - full
        - “A service needs to run an unmodified OS on an advanced processor.” - hardware
        - “Running multiple independent applications sharing the same kernel” - kernel
        - “Running two independent applications, each needing a different version of  the Linux kernel” - full
        - “Multiple applications with high memory usage” - containers
        - "Multiple applications with communication requirements” - container (recommended to just have one app per container)
        - “One application running on a single piece of hardware” - no virtualization (for absolute best performance don't use VM)
- Xen main concepts
    - Invasive changes to the kernel to run Linux as a paravirtualized guest
    - Control domain
    - Guest domain
    - Drive/Stub/Server domains
- Binary translations
    - 
- Hardware virtualization and its history
    - 

## **Containers**

- Operating System-Level Virtualization
    - Container always uses host kernel
    - Besides using Dockerfile to create container image, one can also start a container using existing image and install necessary packages on top of it to create a new image.
        - New container image can be created by installing necessary packages on top of the exisitng image.
    - Overlay network drive creates a distributed network among multiple Docker daemon hosts, and enables swarm services to communicate with each other.
- Examples of OS virtualization
    - 
- OS virtualization and containers
    - 
- Comparison between VM and containers
    - 
- Three building blocks of container
    - 

## **Docker**

- Union File System and Docker images
    - Union file system makes things logically look the same but really a stack, Docker images are read only file system layers
- Describe the docker architecture and its components
    - Docker engine, containerd + runc, Linux
        - Docker engine - libcontainerd, lib network, graph, plugins
        - containerd + runc
        - Linux - namepsaces, control groups, layer capabilities
- Container network models
    - All containers without a **--network** specified, are attached to the default bridge network.
    - Bridge is the default network of containers. The default bridge network is considered a legacy detail of Docker and is NOT recommended for production use since it allows unlated services to communicate.

# Containers and Predictions

## **Docker**

- What is Dockerfile and how to use it?
    - Besides using Dockerfile to create container image, one can also start a container using existing image and install necessary packages on top of it to create a new image.
    - All containers without a **--network** specified, are attached to the default bridge network. This is risky operation as it allows unrelated services to communicate.
        - Bridge is the default network of containers. The default bridge network is considered a legacy detail of Docker and is NOT recommended for production use since it allows unlated services to communicate.
- What is Docker Swarm
    - In a swarm, two overlay networks play a role
        - ingress, which handles control and data traffic related to swarm services.
        - User-defined overlay networks
    - Docker internal load balancing is done using
        - VirtualIP - When a Service is requested the resulting DNS query is forwarded to the Docker Engine, which in turn returns the IP of the service, a virtual IP.
    - In a swarm, two overlay networks play a role
        - ingress, which handles control and data traffic related to swarm services.
        - User-defined overlay networks
- Swarm Services and states
    - A secret is a blob of data. Docker secrets are only available to swarm services, not to standalone containers. When you grant a newly-created or running service access to a secret, the decrypted secret is mounted into the container in an inmemory filesystem.
- Different types of Docker network and their usages
- Service discovery in Docker Swarm
    - DNS
- External load balancing in Docker Swarm
- Three ways to map host to container
    - Bind (host), volume (docker special), tmpfs (doesn't' remember)
- Docker Compose and its usage
    - Declarative way of launching and running containers
    - Main tool by Docker for container orchestration
- How can you mount a storage location on the host to a container?
    - **Bind mount**
        - To persist changes, and to access data outside the container, we need to mount an external storage location
        - Three types of host to container mapping 1) Bind mount, 2) Volume, 3) tmpfs
    - **Volume**
        - To persist changes, and to access data outside the container, we need to mount an external storage location
        - Three types of host to container mapping 1) Bind mount, 2) Volume, 3) tmpfs
    - **tmpfs**
        - To persist changes, and to access data outside the container, we need to mount an external storage location
        - Three types of host to container mapping 1) Bind mount, 2) Volume, 3) tmpfs
- ECS - managed containers by customer
- Margate - managed containers by AWS

## **Kubernetes**

- What is Kubernetes and its function?
    - Kubernetes is a container orchestration system
    - Kubernetes isn't any of the aaS models
- What are the primary advantages of using Kubernetes?
    - Managers the running, scaling, networking, and orchestration of applications
- Architecture of Kubernetes
    - Has a horizontally scalable control plane orchestration worker nodes that run the pods
- Components of master nodes and worker nodes
    - Master - api server, controller, scheduler, etcd
        - Etcd is a key-value store that provides a consistent distributed state for a Kubernetes cluster. / etcd is a highly available consistent key-value store and it is used to store the state of the cluster.
        - The number of master nodes in Kubernetes is not certain. Users can define the number of master nodes according to their needs.
    - worker - kubelete, kube-proxy, container runtime
        - Kube-proxy is responsible for implementing a form of virtual IP for Services.
        - Kubelet is an agent that runs on each node within the cluster. It is responsible for managing the pods.
- Three pod container design patterns
    1. Sidecar - Provides some additional functionality 
        1. Could be used to add HTTPS support
    2. Ambassador - Handles communication with the outside world
    3. Adapter
- Describe the building blocks of Kubernetes - Nodes, Pods, Labels and Selectors, Controllers
    - Nodes - A virtual server in the cluster
        - A node in Kubernetes can run several pods and each pod can run several containers.
    - Pods - A unit of work that runs container(s)
        - In Kubernetes, the smallest control unit is Pod.
    - Labels - A description/name of a pod (like tagging a photo)
    - Selectors - Selector objects based on their labels
    - Controllers - control loops that watch the state of your cluster, then make or request changes where needed
- What is Kubernetes Service and what does it do?
    - Defines a set of pods then sits in front of them and acts as one logical unit and communicator
    - Environment variables and DNS are two primary modes for service discovery in Kubernetes.
- Kubernetes Service proxy
    - Service provides stable IP address and automatically load balances between contained pods
- Kubernetes comparison with Docker Swarm
    - Task vs pod
        - A task manages a single container while a pod can manage many containers sharing a network
    - Service vs ReplicaSet
        - Defines desired state of an application service that has multiple instances
        - Kub replica set only manages Launching and monitoring pods
    - Service vs Deployment
        - A deployment is a ReplicaSet augmented with rolling updates and rollback capabilities
        - A Docker Swarm service handles Launching and monitoring tasks, Rolling updates, and Network routing
    - Routing Mesh vs Service
        - Routing mesh is L4 routing and load balancing while service is logical set of pods with stable endpoint to access them
        - The routing mesh uses **port based service discovery** and load balancing.
    - Network vs Network policy
        - Swarm uses SDNs to firewall containers
        - Kubernetes has flat network architecture

## Cloud Predictions

1. Adoption of cloud computing will continue to grow rapidly
2. The cloud will become more global
3. Regulated industries will move to the cloud
4. Storage capacity will continue to increase rapidly. SSD's share of the market will grow, but there will still be a lot of HDD and magnetic tape in use
5. The cloud will continue to support AI, and there is a symbiotic / mutually-beneficial relationship between AI and clouds
6. The data center accelerator market growth will explode
7. The future of cloud computing access is mobile
8. FaaS will continue to grow in popularity and use
9. Low-code / No-code / Citizen Development will become increasingly important to the industry, as it is a way to help deal with the predicted 1 million software developer shortfall in the U.S.
    1. Microsoft predicts that 90% of new apps will be created with low-code / no-code tools
10. Increased adoption of clouds means increased risks of security breaches
    1. According to Gartner, through 2022, at least 95% of cloud security failures will be caused by organizations / end users.
    - Reduced visibility and control
    - Vulnerabilities in management APIs
    - Multi-tenant data leakage due to failure of separation control
    - Incomplete data deletion
    - Stolen credentials
    - Insider abuse
    - IaaS is preferred for security reasons and is preferred by enterprise as of 2020
11. IoT will grow and help fuel the growth of the cloud industry
12. Hybrid clouds / multi clouds/ omni clouds will become more feasible and widely-used
13. The demand for cloud professionals will grow
- Google Anthos is a framework for Hybrid Cloud deployments.
    - Uses Kubernetes